Create governance remediation process (#1417)
cncf/toc: operations/governance-remediation-process.md

# Governance Remediation Escalation 

> This governance remediation process is for cases where CNCF projects are either not practicing their governance as documented or the project is stuck in a circumstance that its current governance does not cover. As projects evolve over time, we expect projects to evolve their governance as well, the key being the documentation gets updated and reflects current practice(s) quickly before there is a crisis. For projects that would like help adding to or updating their governance, please consider opening a [governance review issue](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/issues/new?assignees=jberkus%2Caliok%2Cgeekygirldawn&labels=wg%2Fgovernance&projects=&template=governance-review-request.yaml&title=%5BGovernance+Review%5D%3A+PROJECT+NAME) with TAG Contributor Strategy.

Reviewer: Love this clarification!

#### Correct Non-Practiced Governance 

_Ensure projects adhere to their documented governance._

Non-practiced governance can either be someone willfully or inadvertently ignoring stated governance. Alternatively, occasions may arise where the defined governance _cannot_ be practiced as the project may be lacking people in a role to execute governance processes.

When a governance conflict or unaccounted situation arises, and the project cannot reach a consensus to develop a path forward. The TOC will work with project stakeholders, TAG Contributor Strategy, the Code of Conduct Committee, and CNCF Staff to create a public remediation plan for the project.

This plan could involve changes to the written governance, removal of specific project leaders, or whatever other measures are required to restore the project to a state where it is following its own governance rules, and that governance is in accord with CNCF principles. Should there be no way to restore the project to community operation, the TOC can consider archiving the project.

> In rare cases, governance failure may be accompanied by possible CoC violations by individual project leaders. Should this happen, the assigned team will engage the CNCF Code of Conduct Committee and the two teams will coordinate their evaluation.

Reviewer 2: Per @mrbobbytables, taking a shot at simplifying this whole section.

Non-practiced governance happens when a project does not, or cannot, follow its own written governance.  This can be due to unanticipated situations, inattention, attrition, or project leader behavior.  In other cases, there may be a dispute over governance interpretation or practices, or whether governance is in accord with core CNCF principles.  Regardless of the cause, if the project is unable to resolve the issue on its own, the TOC will help the project resolve the governance failures or conflicts with the support of TAG Contributor Strategy and the CNCF Staff.

### Out of Scope:

**Conduct Issues**: Handled by the CNCF Code of Conduct [processes](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md#reporting). This includes behavior by project leaders which is a violation of the CNCF CoC; such behavior should be reported to the CoCC and not handled through Governance Remediation.

> 

Reviewer 2: Now that I know that the TLP exists, we need to add that in here:

@TheFoxAtWork what are the correct links here?

```suggestion

**Leadership Issues**: Behavioral issues with individual project leaders may be addressed by contacting the TOC regarding violations of the Technical Leadership Principles.

```

Reviewer: let me find out where this fell off. standby

Reviewer: @joshgav to report potential violations and infringements of the Technical Leadership Principles, community members may report them to the private-toc@cncf.io mailing list. If the conduct is regarding a TOC member, community members may contact CNCF Staff, the TOC Chair, and Vice Chair.

CC @mrbobbytables

Reviewer 2: Do we have a page for the TLP?

Reviewer: Yes (sry I missed the early question) https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/PRINCIPLES.md
About halfway down.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

**Leadership Issues**: Behavioral issues with individual project leaders may be addressed by contacting the TOC regarding violations of the [Technical Leadership Principles](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/PRINCIPLES.md#technical-leadership-principles).

```

**Technical Disagreements**: Projects should use or establish governance to resolve such disputes independently.

**Lifecycle Processes**: Elements already covered in the project's lifecycle review.

## Reporting Governance Remediation

**Public Reports: **In most cases, project governance issues will be reported publicly to the TOC by filing [an Issue in the TOC repository](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues) of type Governance. Should a public issue be reported in some other venue (the project's issue tracker, mailing list, etc.) an issue in the TOC repo should be created for tracking and assignment.

> **Anonymous Reports**: Should the reporter not wish their name to be known, they should email &lt;TOC-confidential-email-here>.  The TOC team will then create an issue in the TOC repo tracking the remediation. The identity of the anonymous reporter will be known only to the TOC team.

Author: ```suggestion
**Anonymous Reports**: Should the reporter not wish their name to be known, they should email private-toc@cncf.io.  The TOC team will then create an issue in the TOC repo tracking the remediation. The identity of the anonymous reporter will be known only to the TOC team.
```

> **Confidential Reports**: Should there be risks around the details of the remediation request being public, the reporter will email &lt;TOC-confidential-email-here>.  The TOC and the assessment team will then use privately shared documents to track the status of the remediation request.

Author: ```suggestion
**Confidential Reports**: Should there be risks around the details of the remediation request being public, the reporter will email private-toc@cncf.io.  The TOC and the assessment team will then use privately shared documents to track the status of the remediation request.
```

# Governance Remediation Escalation 

> This governance remediation process is for cases where CNCF projects are either not practicing their governance as documented or the project is stuck in a circumstance that its current governance does not cover. As projects evolve over time, we do expect their governance to evolve as well, the key being the documentation gets updated and reflects current practice(s) quickly before there is a crisis. For projects that are missing parts of their governance and would like help adding them, please consider opening a [governance review issue](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/issues/new?assignees=jberkus%2Caliok%2Cgeekygirldawn&labels=wg%2Fgovernance&projects=&template=governance-review-request.yaml&title=%5BGovernance+Review%5D%3A+PROJECT+NAME) with TAG Contributor Strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This governance remediation process is for cases where CNCF projects are either not practicing their governance as documented or the project is stuck in a circumstance that its current governance does not cover. As projects evolve over time, we expect projects to evolve their governance as well, the key being the documentation gets updated and reflects current practice(s) quickly before there is a crisis. For projects that would like help adding to or updating their governance, please consider opening a [governance review issue](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/issues/new?assignees=jberkus%2Caliok%2Cgeekygirldawn&labels=wg%2Fgovernance&projects=&template=governance-review-request.yaml&title=%5BGovernance+Review%5D%3A+PROJECT+NAME) with TAG Contributor Strategy.
```

Minor wording suggestion, intending that the normal path is for projects to update their own governance independently; also that the issue might not always be "missing" governance, it could be out-dated

> This governance remediation process is for cases where CNCF projects are either not practicing their governance as documented or the project is stuck in a circumstance that its current governance does not cover. As projects evolve over time, we do expect their governance to evolve as well, the key being the documentation gets updated and reflects current practice(s) quickly before there is a crisis. For projects that are missing parts of their governance and would like help adding them, please consider opening a [governance review issue](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/issues/new?assignees=jberkus%2Caliok%2Cgeekygirldawn&labels=wg%2Fgovernance&projects=&template=governance-review-request.yaml&title=%5BGovernance+Review%5D%3A+PROJECT+NAME) with TAG Contributor Strategy.

Reviewer 2: Yes.  Kubernetes has enough different levels of governance that the project is in a position to self-correct.  Most CNCF projects basically have one governance body -- the maintainers -- and need the TOC to intervene if that body stops being able to make decisions.   That's part of what we're trying to capture in writing here.

## Importance of clear governance documentation

Throughout these processes it is important to maintain clear documentation of all steps taken, decisions made, and actions implemented and provide regular updates to the community and stakeholders about the process and its outcomes. This governance remediation process ensures that CNCF projects maintain effective governance structures, resolving conflicts and gaps promptly while fostering a collaborative and transparent community environment.

## Pre-escalation expectations

> Project members and stakeholders should first attempt to resolve governance issues through normal project discussion and consensus. The Remediation process exists for when normal, in-project resolution fails, either because of a difference of opinion, or because the project lacks the tools to make sufficient changes themselves.

Author: ```suggestion
Project members, stakeholders, and community members should first attempt to resolve governance issues through normal project discussion and consensus. The Remediation process exists for when normal, in-project resolution fails, either because of a difference of opinion, or because the project lacks the tools to make sufficient changes themselves.
```

> Project members and stakeholders should first attempt to resolve governance issues through normal project discussion and consensus. The Remediation process exists for when normal, in-project resolution fails, either because of a difference of opinion, or because the project lacks the tools to make sufficient changes themselves.

Reviewer 4: Anyone of the maintainers can initiate the escalation process?

Reviewer 3: I'd have thought anyone should be able to raise this, so that anyone can report/escalate if they believe a project's maintainers aren't following their defined governance

Reviewer 2: Yes, any contributor (or user) should be able to raise a governance issue.

## Governance Remediation

### Objectives:

#### Establish Missing Governance 

_Assist projects in developing governance structures to handle situations they are currently unequipped to manage._

> Missing governance can usually be remediated within the project by agreeing to adopt the missing governance. This is commonly amicable and not very contentious within a project as the cause or driving mechanism results from a lack of a clear path forward. In this case, missing governance is an opportunity for improvement. 

Reviewer 4: > Missing governance can usually be remediated within the project by agreeing to adopt the missing governance.

This reads a bit strange. My mindset going into this document: there are different optinions between maintains adopting new governance. (i would be one of the maintainers). 

If we have missing governance and say we just apply the missing governance - there is no conflict, right. Why do we state this? Maybe i read this wrong.

> Missing governance can usually be remediated within the project by agreeing to adopt the missing governance. This is commonly amicable and not very contentious within a project as the cause or driving mechanism results from a lack of a clear path forward. In this case, missing governance is an opportunity for improvement. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's normal that as a project grows, it will encounter circumstances that weren't previously covered by the governance documentation, such that there is a lack of a clear path forward. This "missing governance" can usually be remediated amicably and internally within the project, by discussing proposed governance changes, and the maintainers agreeing to adopt changes. In these cases, missing governance is an opportunity for improvement. 
```

Attempted some wording to help clarify what "missing governance" means

#### Correct Non-Practiced Governance 

_Ensure projects adhere to their documented governance._

Non-practiced governance can either be someone willfully or inadvertently ignoring stated governance. Alternatively, occasions may arise where the defined governance _cannot_ be practiced as the project may be lacking people in a role to execute governance processes.

In the case of inadvertent ignorance, these may be resolved internally to the project by pointing out the existing governance against which the behavior or processes must be brought into alignment. 

> In circumstances where the project lacks the people in the defined roles to execute governance processes, the TOC with support from TAG Contributor Strategy serves as an independent advisor to recommend and guide the project to a fair, transparent outcome. In some cases, making specific recommendations to the project to resolve the issue.  If no other course is available, the TOC will directly approve changes to project governance in order to allow it to operate again.

Reviewer 3: **TOC directly approving changes to a project governance crosses a very important line**, and I for one really don't think we should cross it. Projects are self-governing, with no "ifs" or "buts" about it. If there is no way for a project to govern itself, the outcome should be archiving the project because it can no longer operate under the CNCF (and interested parties could choose to fork if they so choose).

Reviewer 2: Liz: we've already done this more than once (Etcd, OpenEBS, etc.).  It's extremely useful to projects to have the TOC as an arbiter in cases where governance has broken down and there's no clear way to restart it.  Saying that the TOC can't do this would amount to saying that we can't rescue projects.  Who does that benefit?

Reviewer 2: Bob: the problem with "the project cannot reach consensus" is that, if the governance is not operating, there isn't a consensus to reach.  Worse, if the defined leadership is not following other CNCF principles (vendor neutrality, CoC, licensing), then "consensus" could be taken to refer to the existing leadership -- who would then vote that there wasn't a problem.

So simplifying is probably good, but we need to leave the door open to someone reporting that a project's current leadership is violating either CNCF rules or their own written governance.  Wordsmithing needed.

Reviewer 5: > So simplifying is probably good, but we need to leave the door open to someone reporting that a project's current leadership is violating either CNCF rules or their own written governance. Wordsmithing needed

:100: , I completely agree there.

Reviewer 6: > It's extremely useful to projects to have the TOC as an arbiter in cases where governance has broken down and there's no clear way to restart it. 

That again seems like a, useful, narrow exception around "non practiced governance", rather than falling under a more general purpose and very vague and broad process to override governance. (see also discussion of etcd example in https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/1417#discussion_r1746089299)

Author: I like @mrbobbytables wording above to simplify and agree with @lizrice that TOC shouldn't have a general purpose override. I've simplified the wording and made some additional changes below to make it more clear that it is about the project.

> In the case of inadvertent ignorance, these may be resolved internally to the project by pointing out the existing governance against which the behavior or processes must be brought into alignment. 
> 
> In circumstances where the project lacks the people in the defined roles to execute governance processes, the TOC with support from TAG Contributor Strategy serves as an independent advisor to recommend and guide the project to a fair, transparent outcome. In some cases, making specific recommendations to the project to resolve the issue.  If no other course is available, the TOC will directly approve changes to project governance in order to allow it to operate again.

Author: ```suggestion
When a governance conflict or unaccounted situation arises, and the project cannot reach a consensus to develop a path forward. The TOC will work with project stakeholders, TAG Contributor Strategy, the Code of Conduct Committee, and CNCF Staff to create a public remediation plan for the project.
```

> In cases where leaders of an open source project willfully disregard the project's published governance or CNCF principles around open governance, the TOC, with advice from the Governance WG, will prepare a remediation plan. This plan could involve supervised project administration, changes to the written governance, removal of specific project leaders, or whatever other measures are required to restore the project to a state where it is following its own governance rules, and that governance is in accord with CNCF principles. Should there be no way to restore the project to community operation, the TOC will consider archiving the project.

Reviewer 7: It strikes me as a concern that the only lever available to the TOC is to archive a project.

Reviewer 3: Do we have examples of maintainers wilfully disregarding their governance, where that wouldn't already be covered by the Code of Conduct?

> In cases where leaders of an open source project willfully disregard the project's published governance or CNCF principles around open governance, the TOC, with advice from the Governance WG, will prepare a remediation plan. This plan could involve supervised project administration, changes to the written governance, removal of specific project leaders, or whatever other measures are required to restore the project to a state where it is following its own governance rules, and that governance is in accord with CNCF principles. Should there be no way to restore the project to community operation, the TOC will consider archiving the project.

Author: ```suggestion
This plan could involve changes to the written governance, removal of specific project leaders, or whatever other measures are required to restore the project to a state where it is following its own governance rules, and that governance is in accord with CNCF principles. Should there be no way to restore the project to community operation, the TOC can consider archiving the project.
```

**Conduct Issues**: Handled by the CNCF Code of Conduct [processes](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md#reporting). This includes behavior by project leaders which is a violation of the CNCF CoC; such behavior should be reported to the CoCC and not handled through Governance Remediation.

**Leadership Issues**: Behavioral issues with individual project leaders may be addressed by contacting the TOC regarding violations of the [Technical Leadership Principles](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/PRINCIPLES.md#technical-leadership-principles).

**Technical Disagreements**: Projects should use or establish governance to resolve such disputes independently.

**Lifecycle Processes**: Elements already covered in the project's lifecycle review.

## Reporting Governance Remediation

**Public Reports: **In most cases, project governance issues will be reported publicly to the TOC by filing [an Issue in the TOC repository](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues) of type Governance. Should a public issue be reported in some other venue (the project's issue tracker, mailing list, etc.) an issue in the TOC repo should be created for tracking and assignment.

> **Anonymous Reports**: Should the reporter not wish their name to be known, they should email private-toc@cncf.io.  The TOC team will then create an issue in the TOC repo tracking the remediation. The identity of the anonymous reporter will be known only to the TOC team.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Anonymous Reports**: Should the reporter not wish their name to be known, they should email cncf-private-toc@lists.cncf.io.  The TOC team will then create an issue in the TOC repo tracking the remediation. The identity of the anonymous reporter will be known only to the TOC team.
```
updating with correct email^^;;

> **Confidential Reports**: Should there be risks around the details of the remediation request being public, the reporter will email private-toc@cncf.io.  The TOC and the assessment team will then use privately shared documents to track the status of the remediation request.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Confidential Reports**: Should there be risks around the details of the remediation request being public, the reporter will email cncf-private-toc@lists.cncf.io.  The TOC and the assessment team will then use privately shared documents to track the status of the remediation request.
```

> **Confidential Reports**: Should there be risks around the details of the remediation request being public, the reporter will email &lt;TOC-confidential-email-here>.  The TOC and the assessment team will then use privately shared documents to track the status of the remediation request.

Reviewer 4: > &lt;TOC-confidential-email-here>

looks like a placeholder

Reviewer 3: Do we know of examples where anonymous reporting would have been helpful, that are not already covered by CoC? I would be a bit worried that this opens up an easy path for malicious actors to create work, and significant mental load, on the TOC and the project maintainers

Reviewer 2: If there are already examples of this, they are not sharable due to their nature -- I can't even confirm whether there are because of that.

However, this anonymous/confidential reporting is set up to parallel the same mechanism we have for the CoC.  There are always cases where a reporter has a reason to fear retaliation from project leadership for raising a governance issue, and requiring them to take that risk means that many governance issues will go unreported until they reach the crisis stage.

Reviewer 3: If the reporter has reason to fear retaliation, doesn't that make it a CoC issue anyway? I'm just trying to avoid the overhead of a duplicate process here. 

If we want this separate process, I do still think there needs to be a requirement on the reporter to show that _someone_ has attempted to resolve through the normal channels within the project

Reviewer 2: Speaking as a member of the CoCC, we are not going to handle reports that a project is, for example, not being vendor neutral.  That's outside the CoC.

There IS considerable overlap between governance remediation and the Technical Leadership Principles, though.

Author: @mrbobbytables do we have an email we can add here?

I think providing an anonymous email avoiding allowing these to escalate into CoC incidents because there wouldn't be someone to "retaliate" against. It makes sense to keep these separate.

Reviewer 2: TOC has a private email, which would cover both Governance Remediation and Leadership Principles violation.  That works, particularly given that in most cases where anyone would want confidentiality, they're going to be the same thing (e.g. "Maintainer X is flagrantly disregarding the written governance")

Reviewer 7: I suspect it is not widely known (a) that the CNCF has Technical Leadership Principles (b) that they nominally apply to project maintainers, and not just positions like TAG chair or TOC member. They do not seem to be mentioned during [project onboarding](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/5c7fff9ae312eb47ca32087850183d24bfe61b86/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-onboarding.md?plain=1#L9).

([This was flagged, but not addressed, at the time](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/1063#discussion_r1212329082).)

Reviewer: @craigbox i disagree with it not being addressed. I believe my comment in response to your concern did address the requirement imposition as you indicated. 

I agree that this is not widely known. @mrbobbytables would you ensure the project onboarding includes an overview of the principles and the technical leadership principles? It is important that projects understand how the TOC intends to interact with projects, which includes the expectations regarding the conduct of leaders in our projects and groups.

Reviewer 5: Yup - I thought it was part of the onboarding template, but it appears it is not. Will make that change shortly.

Reviewer: Thankyou!

Reviewer 7: @TheFoxAtWork Pardon me, I only found this discussion again while looking up the PR that committed the changes to the principles document.  I don't see a follow-up comment from you on #1063.  Was it on another issue?

Reviewer: 🤦‍♀️ sigh... it was responded too but is suspect it is not actually responded to on the issue: https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/1063#discussion_r1760881612.

Reviewer 6: > They do not seem to be mentioned during [project onboarding](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/5c7fff9ae312eb47ca32087850183d24bfe61b86/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-onboarding.md?plain=1#L9).

Independent of that, we have projects that were already onboarded and predate this, I wasn't aware of these either even as a listed maintainer.

I don't see anything remotely objectionable in them, but IMHO if these are meant to apply to project maintainers it hasn't been effectively communicated to project maintainers.

In the future if changes are made to these, or similar policies introduced, an email should probably go out to the maintainers, or something along these lines ...?

## Governance Remediation Process

### Roles

* TAG Contributor Strategy: For missing governance the assignee will lead, consulting and informing with the assigned TOC member as needed. For non-practiced governance, they act as an advisor to the TOC
* TOC member assignee(s): serves an oversight/informational function that the governance assignee can leverage as needed to impress upon the project the needed changes or leads the discussion with the project in the case of non-practiced governance
* Code of Conduct Committee: if a failure of governance coincides with CoC violations by one or more project leaders, the CoCC will coordinate with the assessment team.

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 6: As written currently, this part seems _super vague_ and open to arbitrarily overriding project governance.

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 6: > It is checked when they join and go through all the levels. 

Then "non-practiced governance" remediation should be sufficient?

> There are situations that can happen in between those checkpoints though.

Such as?

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 2: Example: Etcd.

There was no process in Etcd for removing inactive maintainers, and the fact that inactive maintainers had not been removed meant that quorum to vote on removal couldn't be obtained.  As such, the project needed TOC support to implement a maintainer list overhaul outside of existing governance processes -- and add a removal-for-inactivity paragraph.

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 6: > There was no process in Etcd for removing inactive maintainers, and the fact that inactive maintainers had not been removed meant that quorum to vote on removal couldn't be obtained. As such, the project needed TOC support to implement a maintainer list overhaul outside of existing governance processes -- and add a removal-for-inactivity paragraph.

Inability to achieve quorum seems like another variation on "non-practiced governance", which is a much narrower exception to permit overriding project governance, rather than a general purpose governance override.

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 2: Ben: it feels like you're making a semantic argument.  What outcome are you hoping for, here?

> ### Missing Governance

Author: @BenTheElder I think Liz's wording makes it a bit more clear [here](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/1417/commits/e9acf782bdc1cdb761ac75946c64e5b8aa4c13da). Does that answer your question?

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 6: > Ben: it feels like you're making a semantic argument. What outcome are you hoping for, here?

1) Semantics matter?
2) I don't think it's just semantic.

I think we should effectively cover: "the project is no longer able to govern as previously agreed" -> there is an intervention process in that case (and any variation on it).

The initial semantic leaves a gaping, under-defined "missing governance" case with no examples, that could easily be interpreted to be _any_ governance choice not matching the TOC's desires.

---

Thanks @xmulligan @lizrice  I agree that https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/1417/commits/e9acf782bdc1cdb761ac75946c64e5b8aa4c13da is much clearer and that it makes sense to handle this case 🙏

> ### Missing Governance

Reviewer 2: Where I said a semantic arguement is because you asked me what missing governance was, I gave you an example, and then you argued that my example wasn't missing governance.

Agreed that Liz's definition of missing governance is def better than the original draft and we should adopt it.

> ### Missing Governance

Author: Great, I'm going to resolve this conversation then since I've added the modified wording

1. Assessment Team Formation: The TOC will assign one TAG Contributor Strategy assignee and one TOC member.

2. Investigation: The assessment team will Interview the reporter, project maintainers, and other relevant contributors to determine if the governance issue is valid and assess the project's ability to resolve it internally.

> 3. Recommendation Development: In collaboration with the project, the assessment team will draft new governance policies to address gaps. This will include an actionable plan for the project to follow, with specific milestones and deadlines.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Recommendation Development: In collaboration with the assessment team, the project will draft new governance policies to address gaps. This will include an actionable plan for the project to follow, with specific milestones and deadlines.
```

4. Implementation and Monitoring: The assessment team will regularly check in on the project's progress towards defined milestones, provide additional support as needed, and provide a public progress report at 3 and 6 month milestones.

5. Resolution or Escalation: If the project meets the milestones, the issue can be resolved. If not, it should be transferred to the Non-Practiced Governance process.

### Governance Remediation Process: Non-Practiced Governance

1. Triage: The TOC will do an initial triage of the issue and assign a lead member and a supporting member to guide the process.

> 2. Assessment Team Formation: The two TOC members will work with a member of WG Governance to form an assessment team.

Reviewer 7: Line 33 talks about "Governance WG" and this line talks about "WG Governance"; neither are ever defined. The rest of the document talks about TAG Contributor Strategy.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we should add links to the GovWG here.

Reviewer 8: Looks like the link to the WG was added. Resolving this thread.

3. Investigation: The assessment team will Interview the reporter, project maintainers, and other relevant contributors to determine if the governance is not being practiced and assess the project's ability to resolve it internally. This may include attendance by the project’s leadership team to a private TOC meeting to discuss the issue more in depth.

> 4. Recommendation Development: The assessment team will determine where the project is not following its documented governance and create recommendations on how to get back on track. This will include an actionable plan for the project to follow, with specific milestones and deadlines. These recommendations will then be shared with the whole TOC for further feedback and commentary. The TOC will make a final decision and provide directives to the project.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Recommendation Development: The assessment team will determine where the project is not following its documented governance and work with the project to create recommendations on how to get back on track. This will include an actionable plan for the project to follow, with specific milestones and deadlines. These recommendations will then be shared with the whole TOC for further feedback and commentary.
```
